Project Name:A Hybrid Multi-Task Learning Approach for Efficient UAV Signal Identification

Project Description:The improper use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) has raised numerous privacy and security concerns, necessitating the development of efficient Identification technologies. [The UAV signal identification scenario in this project is described as follows. First, when a UAV enters the identification area, a detection device is used to capture a series of UAV signals in IQ form. Due to differences in onboard equipment, the captured UAV signals of different types will exhibit distinct IQ and AP features. Then, the captured UAV signals are stored and preprocessed. Signals in the AP form are derived from the IQ signals, and a sample dataset is constructed based on these signals. Moreover, the signal samples from the dataset are input into the MCL-ECA model to extract multi-domain features, which are subsequently used to predict the UAV type. Finally, based on the prediction results returned by MCL-ECA model, the administrator can take appropriate countermeasures accordingly. Therefore, the primary concern is how to design MCL-ECA model.](https://github.com/paidaxingk/A-Hybrid-Multi-Task-Learning-Approach-for-Efficient-UAV-Signal-Identification/blob/main/scene.pdf)Considering the inherent differences in onboard equipment, UAV signals exhibit unique Orthogonal/In-phase (IQ) and Amplitude/Phase (AP) features.To address this, this project leverages the intrinsic correlation between these two features, extracting IQ and AP signal characteristics independently as sub-tasks. A Multi-Task Convolutional and LSTM Networks with Efficient Channel Attention (MCL-ECA) model is proposed. The hybrid architecture based on CNN and LSTM is employed to efficiently extract sequential data features for complex identification tasks, while the ECA mechanism is used to capture local dependencies through local channel interactions, further enhancing the model’s ability to distinguish features. Additionally, UAV signal category information is extracted by jointly leveraging IQ and AP signal features. 

Explanation of Project Files:The file "I_6AssistantLossBackward.py" is the model file proposed by this project. The remaining files, namely "I_7_ME-CLN_CrossEntropy.py", "I_8_M-CLN_CrossEntropy.py" and "I_9M-CLN_CompositeCrossEntropy.py", are ablation models. One uses the Cross Entropy (CE) loss function, one uses the Composite Cross Entropy (CCE) loss function without the Enhanced Channel Attention (ECA) mechanism, and one uses the Cross Entropy (CE) loss function without the Enhanced Channel Attention (ECA) mechanism. The environment.yml is a dependency environment file.



